Once upon a time there lived a woman whose name was Aftermath. She had one daughter, whose name was Akuvi. Her husband had died when the girl was still very young. As Akuvi grew up she began to rebel against her mother’s authority. If Aftermath asked her to fetch water she would refuse, if Aftermath asked her to pound some yam, the girl would snarl and sulk. Mother used to curse her daughter, but all to no avail. “You think I’m hard on you, she would say, just wait if you keep behaving like this you’ll meet your fate one day!” This went on for quite some time, until one day the mother again asked Akuvi to fetch some water from the well. Akuvi refused bluntly. “Why do I always have to fetch your water, mother? Why can’t you get it for yourself. You have arms and legs just like I do!” Aftermath got so angry at her daughter’s insolence that she took a cane and beat her. This in turn made Akuvi very angry. “that’s it! She said, That’s it! I’ve had enough, I’m going!” With that she took some of her clothes, packed them in a bundle and left home. She really had no idea where she was going, she had nobody to turn to, she didn’t know anybody outside the small village they lived in.

As there was nowhere else to go she headed towards the forest. After she’d been walking for some time, she came across a small farm. On the edge stood an old hut, and outside the hut sat an old lady. Akuvi had never seen such an old lady, she must be at least a hundred years old! Akuvi walked up to the old lady, who looked her in the eye, and asked “Who are you and where are you from?” Akuvi just about opened her mouth to answer, when the old lady shouted “Stop! Don’t speak! I know all about you!” She wagged her crooked fingers at the girl. “Your mother tried her best to bring you up well, but you wouldn’t have it, would you? You thought you knew better. You wouldn’t listen to your mother, well, now you’re here, you’ll see something else! Welcome, my dear! ”

The old lady took her in, gave her some food and a corner of her hut where she could lie down to sleep. The next morning the old lady took Akuvi to her field, where she grew some vegetables; yam, cassava, beans. The old lady spread her arms and said to Akuvi: “what you see here is my farm, I grow everything here, and you will have to help me. Everytime I send you to pick something, these plants will talk to you. Some will say: Don’t touch me please, I’m too young, or: I’ve only just been planted, I’m not ripe yet! I want you to ignore them don’t take any notice; just pick the one that protests loudest.”
